[Back to Main](../README.md)


## U64-support

### What is U64

U64 is a small CLI tool developed by Martin Fredriksson that controls the Ultimate2+ and Ultimate 64.
For more information, please visit the official U64 website: https://u64-cli.org/.
U64 can be used stand-alone, but for your convenience it's included with DemoFX so that when you run your code you can automatically show the resulting D64 on a real Commodore 64 or Ultimate 64.

The lib folder showld always contain the latest U64-version compiled for Linux, Mac and Windows.

### Configuring U64 in DemoFX

Locate config.yaml which you can find in the root folder of DemoFX.

```
u64RunnerEnabled: 0
u64RunnerIP: 192.168.1.64
```

To enable previewing on the C64 simply enable `u64RunnerEnabled`, like this:
```
u64RunnerEnabled: 1
```

You must set the IP-address to the IP of your Ultimate2+ or Ultimate 64.

That's it, now your generated D64's should auto-start.  

In case you're really hardcore and would like to validate your code on two machines,
perhaps one C64 with a Ultimate2+ cartridge and one Ultimate64, you can make use of
the secondary runner. The same logic as with the main runner applies. Simply enable and set the IP. 

```
u64Runner2Enabled: 1
u64Runner2IP: 192.168.1.65
```


### Troubleshooting U64

If nothing happens try these steps:
- First of all make sure your code actually compiles and that it runs in VICE.  
- You should be able to see some log output in the console, so investigate those clues.  
- Validate that the IP is correct and that you can ping the IP.  
- Exclude DemoFX configuration errors, by communicating with your hardware directly. See next section.

### Using U64 manually

Visit the U64 website for more information. However, a quick and simple test is to try 
to reboot your Commodore 64 or Ultimate 64 using the reboot command.

The syntax is: `u64 signal machine -t reboot -m ip`

You can use the binaries in the DemoFX lib folder. Below is an example using Linux/arm64 syntax:
```
cd your-demofx-folder/lib/
./u64-linux-arm64 signal machine -t reboot -m 192.168.1.141
```

The IP should be changed to the IP you're using, and you also need to use the u64-version that suits your OS and processor.
`u64-linux-arm64` works with Linux and the arm64 processor. If you for example have an Intel-based Mac you should use
u64-darwin-amd64 instead.


